-: In this video, I'm gonna show you how to download
and install Wireshark on a Windows computer.
The process is fairly intuitive.
First thing you need to do is open up a web browser
and go to wireshark.org.
This is the official Wireshark website
so simply browse to wireshark.org
and then click download.
You then need to select the installer.
In my example,
it's gonna be a Windows installer 64 bit.
I'm gonna save that to my local computer.
If you're still running a 32 bit Windows operating system,
you could select that,
but I'm running Windows 10 here,
64 bit operating system.
I'm gonna open up the folder
and then double click on the installation file.
Click yes to start the installation process.
And now I'm simply gonna just choose all the defaults.
So click next.
Now Wireshark is open source software.
It's licensed under the GNU General Public License
so you don't have to pay for Wireshark,
but you need to agree to this license.
Click agree to continue.
I'm gonna install all the default components
and click next.
I'm also going to add a Wireshark desktop icon
to my desktop.
Click next.
I'm gonna stay with the default installation directory.
Click next again and click install.
So basically all I did there
was go through the default installation process.
Now what Wireshark will do is add information
to your network adapters.
So at the moment, I've only got network adapter two.
So you can see here, I've got Ethernet0 network two,
but that will be updated.
I'm going to agree to the Nmap installation.
And again, just select the defaults
and click install.
You can look at the details if you like.
Otherwise just wait for the installation to complete.
It's a very simple installation.
Going back through the installation,
notice this installing Npcap Loopback adapter.
So now, I've got this Npcap Loopback adapter
that gets installed automatically.
Click next, click finish.
The Wireshark installation now completes.
So notice it's extracting a bunch of files
and installing Wireshark.
The Wireshark software is now installed
and you can see that's completed.
Click next and click finish.
So I've got Wireshark installed
and I could run it,
so I'll simply type Wireshark here
and run the desktop application.
So there you go.
You can see various network adapters.
So my Npcap Loopback adapter
and my Ethernet0 adapter.
That's the one that I want to capture traffic on
so I'm simply gonna double click it.
And as you can see now,
it's starting to capture traffic.
Now it's capturing a lot of traffic on my local network,
including Dropbox traffic.
What I'll do however, is go to a website
such as cisco.com
and then in Wireshark, I'll stop this capture
and do a filter for HTTP.
And what you can see here
is I've been able to capture HTTP traffic.
I can move these around
so that's easier to read what's going on.
But notice HTTP or hyper text transfer protocol,
we can see this is actually traffic coming
from a Microsoft website.
So stuff is being sent to Microsoft.
But notice here, HTTP.
So there's my HTTP get
and then I'm getting a message saying
that the website has been moved.
Basically, I'm being redirected
to an HTTPS website
rather than going to pure HTTP
which is insecure, shouldn't be using it,
I'm being redirected to a encrypted website.
So hence being told
that the website has been moved
because I'm gonna be pushed
to a encrypted website
rather than using an insecure website.
But the point is is that I can connect to the internet.
Here's some traffic to amazontrust.com.
So a whole bunch of stuff happening in the background
on my network,
but were you able to capture some traffic in your example?
As always, be careful capturing traffic on a network.
You need to have permission
to capture the traffic.
In my example, that's fine.
This is my own local home network,
but be careful capturing traffic
on any network, especially a public network.
You could get into trouble.
So adhere to the laws of where you are.
Ethical hacking means that you need to be careful.
Don't just hack any network.
Don't just access any network
unless you really want to go to jail
or you know, want to get a fine.
Be careful, do things ethically.
But there you go.
Simple as that
to download and install Wireshark
on a Windows computer
and then capture traffic.
In subsequent videos,
I'll show you more options in Wireshark,
but I simply wanted to get you started
downloading and installing Wireshark.